---
layout: archive
title: "Others"
permalink: /others/
author_profile: true
---

{% include base_path %}

Miscellaneous personal interests and completed projects
======
## Young Innovators' Society
I am an executive committee member for my school’s Young Innovators’ Society, an interest club for hobbyists to attend courses and inspire each other to tackle new projects. Through my involvement, I have gained competencies such as using CAD software, 3D printing, soldering, and Arduino. As someone who loves picking up new skills, tinkering with ideas through relentless experimentation enabled me to adopt a novel approach to my [Extended Essay](https://alcotticus.github.io/portfolio/extendedessay.md); I derived a relationship between hopper angle and discharge rate and proved it using physical experiments, for which I made 3D printed hoppers, as well as simulated experiments using DEM software, with a satisfying agreement between my alternative investigation methods. Not only has my involvement given me the chance to hone my leadership skills and positively contribute to a thriving culture of innovation in my local community by providing guidance to juniors, the technical courses have also provided an opportunity for me to turn my ideas into reality. To this day, I remain grateful for the vibrant enthusiasm for learning shared by my peers, that has both inspired me and given be the confidence to explore new avenues of creativity.

## Secondary school projects
### CCA (Track and Cross-country): led team participation in Run-It-Forward, organised by the Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, 2021 - 2022
From October 2021 to December 2022, as sprints captain and part of the MG Track executive committee, I coordinated our collective participation in the Run-It-Forward charity run, organised by the Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, to support both the NTU Priorities Fund as well as President's Challenge. It was a personal goal to not only contribute to a good cause, but also to foster team camaraderie and nurture our love for the sport in a casual environment, unhindered by the pressure to perform. Participating in the 300km team category challenged each group of four to remain consistent during the off-season, all the while pushing each other to reach new heights. This has been an incredibly fulfilling experience, and I am immensely grateful for both my teammates' enthusiastic participation, as well as the chance to bring them this opportunity for growth.

### Physics: investigation on sail interaction and angles, 2021-2022

I’m an avid sailor and I was intrigued by its related physical applications. I remember being quite confused when I first started sailing, and I  had no clue why I should angle my sail a certain way to travel in a certain direction, or why it was even possible for a boat to be able to sail upwind. When I started sailing beach catamarans, I was also startled by the idea that a catamaran could reach speeds that exceed even that of the wind. This prompted me to propose the research question of what the fastest point of sail, which refers to the direction of motion relative to wind direction, of a beach catamaran is, as well as the optimum sail angle for each point of sail. I was also fascinated by the effect of interactions between the mainsail and the jib, which is a smaller sail placed in front of the mainsail on a boat. I wanted to study how boat speed would be affected by using a setup with a mainsail and jib, as opposed to having just one mainsail of an equal sail area. For the practical, my partner and I designed an experiment using a model sailboat and measured the distance travelled by the sailboat within a certain time period under different conditions, while using the accelerometer on our smartphones to track the instantaneous acceleration of the boat in motion. 

Before this, I hadn't had a preference for any particular subject, but it was during the process of writing the literature review, and reading articles on wind-sail interactions that first sparked my interest in physics. I remember reading through an article on the mechanisms of wind motion when a boat sails upwind and the generation of lift. The author had proposed different theories for this, and I realised that even with my most elementary understanding of physics and Newton’s laws, I could actually understand the ideas discussed and the application of these concepts in real life. It was incredibly rewarding to see the seemingly abstract concepts explain real-world phenomena, and it was from that experience that my entire attitude toward physics changed. I remain immensely grateful for this project as a pivotal point guiding my enthusiasm for physics.

### Core mathematics: Modelling projectile motion, 2021
For my year 3 core maths coursework, we were tasked with proposing a real-world research question on a topic of our choice and designing the relevant experiment. My team did a study on mathematically modelling projectile motion, specifically that of a served volleyball in flight, neglecting spin forces, so as to compare and discuss the significance of air resistance in changing the flight path taken by the ball. Our first model predicted the flight of the ball only under the influence of gravitational force, and with the aid of mathematical graphing softwares, the second took into account the effects of air resistance. We then undertook practical fieldwork and overlaid both models on stop-motion freeze frames of the actual serve in order to prove their validity. Using this model, we could also determine the maximum average velocity at which a ball could be served, neglecting spin, by substituting the maximum possible distance travelled for the ball to remain in court, as well as the launch angle that allowed the ball to just pass over the net.

###    Completed business project, Goat Bags, 2019
After undergoing a semester-long entrepreneurship course under my teacher-mentors, my partner and I designed a business idea targeting the MGS student body as a tote bag customisation service. This was my first experience experimenting with e-commerce in product promotion and sales, and we seized the opportunity to interact with our fellow schoolmates from a wholly different perspective. Our project was just a taste into a world of entrepreneurship - from branding, polling our consumer base, sourcing materials, designing and hand-painting bags, and distribution to our customers, the entire process was an enriching one.